Typical Workflows

1.	Data matrix generated (data)
2.	Data converted from proprietary software to open source format accessible to R
3.	Use R package “mzR” functions peaks() and header() to generate the appropriate data lists (data.p and data.h)
4.	Use custom function mzUnpack() to create data matrix (data.pR)
5.	Mean and standard deviation centre the data using apply and function(x) (x-mean(x))/sd(x). (data.pRC)
6.	Perform principal component analysis or factor analysis on relevant portions of data matrix in order to generate useful data (data.pRC.pca or data.pRC.fa)
7.	Assign retention times (data.h$ret) of most important factors based on column vectors. Column vectors actually line up with scan number, which corresponds to retention time.
8.	From the important component scores, select the most important m/z peaks manually using identify() or using a simple cutoff. (data.pRC.sc.mz)
9.	Use the glycan.gen() function to generate a list of possible glycan masses and monomer compositions (gg1)
10.	Employ rlookup() to match m/z peaks (data.pRC.sc.mz) from chromatogram to possible glycan structures (gg1[  ,1])—or vice versa. The new matrix could be called data.pRC.sc.gg1.rl.
11.	Use cbind() to attach the relevant glycan monomer compositions from gg1[  ,2:5] to data.pRC.sc.gg1.rl. This matrix can be named struct.hits.
12.	Plot important peaks against retention time. You can cbind() the peak m/z values and the retention time if desired. Intensity would also be good.
13.	Use textxy() in the calibrate package to add appropriate text to the plotted data points. 
14.	Perform regress.all.matrix() on relevant m/z and retention times. Call it (reg).
15.	Perform a conditioned abline.batch() on reg or perform abline.per3 on single triplet of points.
16.	Save the abline condition as a separate matrix if you wish. The y-int and x-int information are all important physical information regarding the chromatography.
17.	Find ratios of y-int to y-int, and/or ratios of x-int to x-int which turn out to equal specific values (integer values?)
